The Holy Ecclesial is a splinter of the Holy See, formed during the great schism. They worship the Four Ascendants as true divinity.
PSYDON yet lives. PSYDON yet ENDURES.
Dae is far less dangerous than Night; Astrata-Noc’s gaze is far more searing to all forms of evils in a direct burn.
The Ten are less responsive to prayer than the Ascendant. The Holy See claims that this is a test of faith.
I can jump further by getting a running start. Mind the overshoot.
The world flooded for a thousand daes before Abyssor was finally put to rest. Some say he will one dae stir from his slumber; and wash away the sins of the world with his awakening.
Rest shall heal your beleagured body. Any smart adventurer brings a bedroll...and a lookout.
The Empire of the Holy Celestia crumbled after ZIZO consumed the souls of all snow elves in Her ambition for godhood.
A torch should be kept dry, and a blade sharp.
The key to a long life is knowing when to run.
Holy miracles are lethal to deadites, and unholy magicks mend their bones and skin.
Xylix's gift to mortals is the humble tarot deck, allowing them to divine the fates themselves.
It is said that Baotha was once twin of Eora. In a jealous lover's quarrel, she attempted to murder her own sister, and was outcast from the Pantheon.
Pestra once saved the life of Eora. The two are said to have shared a close bond since, though with differing ideas of beauty.
ZIZO dwells within the hellish north, raging, weeping. Her icy fury manifests as the magickal blizzards that torment Gronn, or so it is said.
Dendor burst from the feverishly-sleeping Abyssor's head, spilling life forth in a chaotic frenzy.
Werewolves are tests sent by Dendor, to ensure our purity and faith.
Werewolves are those cursed by Dendor for their sins against nature, damned to consume all they touch.
Werewolves are blessings sent by Dendor to restore us to a natural way of lyfe.
Werewolves are the hideous creations of Dendor in his madness, blindly venerated by idiot worshippers of the Ten. 
Challenging a Matthiosite is challenging a Ravoxian. Both fight for their deity; but both have very different senses of Justice.
Astrata-Noc is the Twinned God, a dual-sexed creacher with two faces and four arms that shifts at dusk and dawn,
Pestra is said to have slithered from the guts of Psydon, decayed and foetid, last of the Ten to emerge.
Necra, in the oldest tomes, is said to be a being older than Psydon. The Holy See itself calls this heresy.
It is claimed that Noc invented alchemy by the Holy See. The Holy Ecclesical claims it was the creation of Matthios.
Thousands of years ago, PSYDON sent down the COMET SYON to defeat the rampaging Archdevil, splitting himself into Ten.
It is taught by the Holy See that ZIZO is the reincarnation of the Archdevil Vaush, the demon PSYDON died to defeat.
Red jackberries are toxic, and green jackberries are safe.
Green jackberries are toxic, and red jackberries are safe.
Matthios stole Astrata's sacred flame and sold it to mortals, creating the first Transaction and flooding ontological reality with the fact of Wealth.
Necrans despise deadites and wish them exterminated or cured; Pestrans wish them cured, but think that pustules are neat!
The divines smile upon your prayers in front of a psycross, but never mention them the name of the Dark Shepherd.
The best way to deal with a mage is to shut them up.
Ravox stands for justice, not murder.
Heretical tomes suggest Xylix shares fondness for Graggar, once a slave who broke free of his chains. Others propose a fondness for Matthios, who played a trick on the gods themselves.
The Rontz is said to be Matthios' hardened blood, weeping from his burns as he clutched Astrata's fire between his fingers. This dissuades few people- it is worth a lot of money, after all.
Coins are often buried with the dead to pay for the Carriageman's services.
Sissean tails are said to bring good luck if burned and scattered as powder. 
Lux from a tiefling is thought to be toxic. It is often purified with silver first before transplantation.
Pestrans oft suffer bad relations with the rest of the Church, as their fixation on rot and decay is looked on increasingly with distrust in the new era of necromancy. Sects of physickers keep increasingly to themselves.
Malum used to carry a divine hammer that gave life to all material things Azure Peak was built upon. It is now lost to history.
Carrion-beasts, cheeles, and nagas are sacred to Pestra. Those who slay them are often punished with terrible plagues.
Eora stands for far more than familial love- but frowns upon those who break matrimony.
What better trick than stealing fire from Astrata herself?
Blood freely spilled always offers greater power, for it carries the worth of both the blood and the choice. Always obtain a willing victim, if you can.
Aasimar blood is thought to have powerful protective properties. Superstitious soldiers may ask to be annointed with a drop before a battle.
Black cats are symbols of death, and sacred to Necra. They stare at souls only they can see, and lead them to the Carriageman.
Trolls are thought to have once guarded Dendor's realm. Druids often seek them out. Some even come back.
Drow mushroom wines are said to be delicious, as long as paired with the right antidote.
Servants of Xylix are often capricious and untrustworthy, but all share in their god's hatred for slave-taking. 
Azure Peak used to belong to the once-great Celestial Empire, fractured by ZIZO's ambition and cunning. It is a shadow of its former self.
Graggar was given power as Ravox's champion; and with it, he clawed a hole through the crumbling firmament to divinity.
Gods listen. To utter the name of ZIZO is to attract her attention, and your damnation.
The Inhumen have many names. In the frozen, forsaken north, they are revered as sacred animals- the moose, the leopard, the bear, and the volf.
O fate, you are as fickle as Livras gold.
For the entire world, the annihilation of an entire species was seen as a cataclysmic event that shook reality to its core. For Her, it was taking one step of many.
Zizo is nothing but a name to masquerade Her identity. To make Her feel like a fairy tale. If they learned that Zaelarion was a mere mortal as well, they'd no longer pray to the Ten.
A Ravoxian should not confuse striking at evil and bringing justice, lest their justice become the act of striking.
The Undermaiden claims all souls, in time. Her servants can avert death, but frown on reversing it.
Gaze upon the works of PSYDONIA, ye mighty, and weep!
The church frowns upon the trade of Wealth- the sin of Matthiosite heresy is inherent to it. Tithing is a controversial practice among the devout, and often a source of Otavan infighting.
When Dendor first clawed free of Abyssor's skull, he shed parts of himself like a snake's skin. This skin became the Lamia.
ZIZO stole the souls of all snow elves in Her ascension. They serve eternally in her undead armies- forever freed from Necra's grasp.
The land of Naledi is unique among its beliefs- holding that the Inhumen are created from mortal desire, and were crafted by PSYDON. This heresy saw their warscholars purged by the Holy See.
Most citizens of Grenzelhoft cannot remember a time the empire was not at war. Many turn to mercenary work to escape the crushing poverty of the lower class. Others turn to banditry.
The firmament is weakest in Azurea, where the COMET SYON landed, and the dark-star Graggar thrashes, entombed underneath the earth. More gods have bled here than mortal men.
It is said that Astrata once took the form of a mortal, having fallen in love with a prince named Antero, and ultimately sacrificed Her mortal form to protect her child from Necra's clutches. It did not work.
The sprawling tundra of Aavnr is the homeland of the graggarspawn Orc race. Few travel there willingly. 
Vampyres are sun-cursed creechers spawned from Astrata's ill-fated attempt at a family. She has forgiven none of the Pantheon for this- not Noc, not Xylix, and not Necra.
A comet capable of rending all the enemies of humanity apart; oh, how graceful His power was! And His sacrifice, ever so noble! Yet now He slumbers, unaware of the fruits His efforts came to give. And He sighs. And He weeps.
Dragons are holy symbols of Matthios- incarnations of greed and stolen sunfyre. To slay one is a holy, and often suicidal, task.
Merchants and the rich are often viewed with suspicion of Matthiosite heresy by the Inquisition. Except, of course, for nobility, who have divine right to wealth.
The Ten will have you think He is powerless, and the Four that he is dead; but all He asks of you is for your faith to ENDURE.
The powerful nation of Otava is home to a radical denomination that venerates PSYDON above all, seeing the TEN as mere fragments of True Divinity. Azure Peak is home to a small enclave of this Psydonian Order.
The land of Naledi is now but a smouldering ruin- rot and feces; sand run through with daemonic taint. The warscholars flee their home, weeping as He does.
I AM OLDER THAN AEON. I AM SIN, FATHER OF LIES. I HAVE GONE BY MANY NAMES. SAY THEM AND WEEP, FOR I AM ALL THAT THEY ARE.
Working yourself to death is considered an act worthy of veneration, for Malumnites- as long as you finish your creation.
It's a good idea to bandage and suture arterial wounds as soon as possible. Death happens slowly, and then all at once.
Gripping bleeding bodyparts makes them bleed slower.
The Sovereignty of Otava is a lush, wet country, home to the best stoneworkers on Psydonia. The gigantic towers of the Grand Cathedral in the capital stand as the seat of the Otavan Inquisition.
A traditional Psydonic greeting or farewell is 'Purity afloat.' The psycross is often held over the chest during.
Blacksteel is a pale imitation of the Zizo-blessed Darksteel, gifted to Her followers in Her benevolence.
Blacksteel is a blessed alloy of pure silver and steel. Its recipe was stolen by Zizite heretics and perverted into Darksteel.
The Gronn Highlands is a mountainous region known for its jagged peaks and terrible blizzards. The highlands are home to a hardy, brutal people who struggle to survive against the land, building fortified stone villages that cling to cliffsides. 
Dwarves are renowned for their artifice and craftsmanship, having been least affected by the collapse of the Celestial Empire. They are only mostly dead.
The Raneshan Empire is a vast, dry region - primarily made up of sprawling forests and arid lands, and is famous for its rich silks, splendorous gold, and its expansive slave trade.
Most Dwarves hail from Hammerhold, either from above or below. Confusing a surface-dwarf and an underground-dwarf is likely to get you kicked in the shin.
The Isles of Etrusca are a sun-kissed archipelago nestled in sparkling blue waters. Known for their rich maritime culture, the Etruscans are masterful sailors and traders, navigating the seas with swift, ornate galleons adorned with colorful sails.
ZIZO. ZIZO. ZIZO.
To seek progress is to paint with your blood. The greater the work, the harsher the price.
Scent of rot and shit; my feet find fetid ground. A corpse- I am living on a corpse. And then the world is normal again.
Worshippers of the Ascendants are fools hellbent on dooming our world, and must be corrected or destroyed.
Worshippers of the Ten are fools hellbent on dooming our world, and must be corrected or destroyed.
Worshippers of the One are fools hellbent on dooming our world, and must be corrected or destroyed.
LOOK UP TO PEOPLE WHO ARE GOOD AT VIOLENCE; THEY CARRY WILL OF GODS AND RECIEVE PUNISHMENT OF HELL BEYOND HELLS.
O SYDON, forgive your wayward child. Forgive us our ignorance. Forgive us our defilement of your corpse.
